dev-docs/flow.todo.md, before:

I feel like labyrint doing too much on its own where mastra natively provide everything to implement like runtimeContext, worfklow, step, memory


I feel like labyrint doing too much on its own where mastra natively provide everything to implement like runtimeContext, worfklow, step, memory, agent network... so now please make mastra as High super first class-netizen... all to comply with readme.md expectations

===

the ram usage must be consuming, what if beside ram mode can also duckdb mode which is saving the graph arrows in duckdb. so become friendly for device with low ram

===

I want feature so that external agent can see whole graph and relationship of a topic to conduct a story or summary by viewing it in multi dimensional also temporal space with configurable scope

===

graph UI

===

setup biome to packages/agent which runnable from monorepo root

===

judge agent and router agent has no tools?

===

I want highly configurable mastra .env also with super granular model also at root should be there script to run mastra dev

===

to meet expectations on README.md in production ready manner, as guardrails.

lets add many bun test cases files in test/e2e/[domain].test.ts test/integration/[domain].test.ts test/unit/[domain].test.ts test/utils/

rules;

1. real verify implementation
2. less mock and less spy
3. idempotent and clean even on sigterm
4. each cases should be isolated without noisy neighbor syndrom

so the test should enforce implementation to be finish production ready. so test is single source of truth and proof.


=== DONE

mastra already has built in features for observability like logging , RuntimeContext etc....

``` official doc
Using
RuntimeContext

Use RuntimeContext to access request-specific values. This lets you conditionally adjust behavior based on the context of the request.
src/mastra/agents/test-agent.ts

export type UserTier = {
  "user-tier": "enterprise" | "pro";
};

export const testAgent = new Agent({
  // ...
  model: ({ runtimeContext }) => {
    const userTier = runtimeContext.get("user-tier") as UserTier["user-tier"];

    return userTier === "enterprise"
      ? openai("gpt-4o-mini")
      : openai("gpt-4.1-nano");
  },
});

    See Runtime Context for more information.

Using
maxSteps

The maxSteps parameter controls the maximum number of sequential LLM calls an agent can make. Each step includes generating a response, executing any tool calls, and processing the result. Limiting steps helps prevent infinite loops, reduce latency, and control token usage for agents that use tools. The default is 5, but can be increased:

const response = await testAgent.generate("Help me organize my day", {
  maxSteps: 10,
});

console.log(response.text);

Using
onStepFinish

You can monitor the progress of multi-step operations using the onStepFinish callback. This is useful for debugging or providing progress updates to users.

onStepFinish is only available when streaming or generating text without structured output.

const response = await testAgent.generate("Help me organize my day", {
  onStepFinish: ({ text, toolCalls, toolResults, finishReason, usage }) => {
    console.log({ text, toolCalls, toolResults, finishReason, usage });
  },
});


# Logging | Observability

Learn how to use logging in Mastra to monitor execution, capture application behavior, and improve the accuracy of AI applications.

Source: https://mastra.ai/docs/observability/logging

---

# Logging

Mastra's logging system captures function execution, input data, and output responses in a structured format. 

When deploying to Mastra Cloud, logs are shown on the [Logs](/docs/deployment/mastra-cloud/observability)page. In self-hosted or custom environments, logs can be directed to files or external services depending on the configured transports. 

## Configuring logs with PinoLoggerDirect link to Configuring logs with PinoLogger

When [initializing a new Mastra project](/docs/getting-started/installation)using the CLI, `PinoLogger`is included by default. 

src/mastra/index.ts 
```
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core/mastra";import { PinoLogger } from "@mastra/loggers";export const mastra = new Mastra({  // ...  logger: new PinoLogger({    name: "Mastra",    level: "info",  }),});
```

> See the PinoLogger API reference for all available configuration options.

## Customizing logsDirect link to Customizing logs

Mastra provides access to a logger instance via the `mastra.getLogger()`method, available inside both workflow steps and tools. The logger supports standard severity levels: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`. 

### Logging from workflow stepsDirect link to Logging from workflow steps

Within a workflow step, access the logger via the `mastra`parameter inside the `execute`function. This allows you to log messages relevant to the step’s execution. 

src/mastra/workflows/test-workflow.ts 
```
import { createWorkflow, createStep } from "@mastra/core/workflows";import { z } from "zod";const step1 = createStep({  //...  execute: async ({ mastra }) => {    const logger = mastra.getLogger();    logger.info("workflow info log");    return {      output: ""    };  }});export const testWorkflow = createWorkflow({...})  .then(step1)  .commit();
```

### Logging from toolsDirect link to Logging from tools

Similarly, tools have access to the logger instance via the `mastra`parameter. Use this to log tool specific activity during execution. 

src/mastra/tools/test-tool.ts 
```
import { createTool } from "@mastra/core/tools";import { z } from "zod";export const testTool = createTool({  // ...  execute: async ({ mastra }) => {    const logger = mastra?.getLogger();    logger?.info("tool info log");    return {      output: "",    };  },});
```

### Logging with additional dataDirect link to Logging with additional data

Logger methods accept an optional second argument for additional data. This can be any value, such as an object, string, or number. 

In this example, the log message includes an object with a key of `agent`and a value of the `testAgent`instance. 

src/mastra/workflows/test-workflow.ts 
```
import { createWorkflow, createStep } from "@mastra/core/workflows";import { z } from "zod";const step1 = createStep({  //...  execute: async ({ mastra }) => {    const testAgent = mastra.getAgent("testAgent");    const logger = mastra.getLogger();    logger.info("workflow info log", { agent: testAgent });    return {      output: ""    };  }});export const testWorkflow = createWorkflow({...})  .then(step1)  .commit();
```
```

===

correct mastra ai implementation is like in dev-docs/mastra-test

===

understand readme.md then develop the quackgraph-agent. you can also edit packages/quackgraph if you like. but your working dir is not there. quackgraph-agent working dir is at ./ 

---

understand readme.md then continue develop the quackgraph-agent. 

---

understand readme.md then continue develop the quackgraph-agent until all features well implemented in production ready manner.

Commit message:

refactor: implement AsyncLocalStorage for graph isolation in tests Replaced simple global singleton with AsyncLocalStorage to support concurrent testing. Added  utility for ensuring clean test isolation.
test: add fortified unit tests for physics engine (GraphTools & Chronos)
Added isolated unit tests to verify: - GraphTools: Cycle detection, governance filtering, and pheromone updates. - Chronos: Evolutionary diffing and time-window correlation.

test: add governance, time-travel, and resilience test suites
Added comprehensive test coverage: - Integration: Verified SchemaRegistry enforcement on tool execution. - E2E: Validated temporal context switching (Time Travel) in full workflow. - E2E: Validated system resilience against malformed inputs and exhaustion.

dev-docs/flow.todo.md, after:


is the external agent can see temporal evolution of the overall graph nodes edges relationship network?

===

I feel like labyrint doing too much on its own where mastra natively provide everything to implement like runtimeContext, worfklow, step, memory


I feel like labyrint doing too much on its own where mastra natively provide everything to implement like runtimeContext, worfklow, step, memory, agent network... so now please make mastra as High super first class-netizen... all to comply with readme.md expectations

===

the ram usage must be consuming, what if beside ram mode can also duckdb mode which is saving the graph arrows in duckdb. so become friendly for device with low ram

===

I want feature so that external agent can see whole graph and relationship of a topic to conduct a story or summary by viewing it in multi dimensional also temporal space with configurable scope

===

graph UI

===

setup biome to packages/agent which runnable from monorepo root

===

judge agent and router agent has no tools?

===

I want highly configurable mastra .env also with super granular model also at root should be there script to run mastra dev

===

to meet expectations on README.md in production ready manner, as guardrails.

lets add many bun test cases files in test/e2e/[domain].test.ts test/integration/[domain].test.ts test/unit/[domain].test.ts test/utils/

rules;

1. real verify implementation
2. less mock and less spy
3. idempotent and clean even on sigterm
4. each cases should be isolated without noisy neighbor syndrom

so the test should enforce implementation to be finish production ready. so test is single source of truth and proof.


=== DONE

mastra already has built in features for observability like logging , RuntimeContext etc....

``` official doc
Using
RuntimeContext

Use RuntimeContext to access request-specific values. This lets you conditionally adjust behavior based on the context of the request.
src/mastra/agents/test-agent.ts

export type UserTier = {
  "user-tier": "enterprise" | "pro";
};

export const testAgent = new Agent({
  // ...
  model: ({ runtimeContext }) => {
    const userTier = runtimeContext.get("user-tier") as UserTier["user-tier"];

    return userTier === "enterprise"
      ? openai("gpt-4o-mini")
      : openai("gpt-4.1-nano");
  },
});

    See Runtime Context for more information.

Using
maxSteps

The maxSteps parameter controls the maximum number of sequential LLM calls an agent can make. Each step includes generating a response, executing any tool calls, and processing the result. Limiting steps helps prevent infinite loops, reduce latency, and control token usage for agents that use tools. The default is 5, but can be increased:

const response = await testAgent.generate("Help me organize my day", {
  maxSteps: 10,
});

console.log(response.text);

Using
onStepFinish

You can monitor the progress of multi-step operations using the onStepFinish callback. This is useful for debugging or providing progress updates to users.

onStepFinish is only available when streaming or generating text without structured output.

const response = await testAgent.generate("Help me organize my day", {
  onStepFinish: ({ text, toolCalls, toolResults, finishReason, usage }) => {
    console.log({ text, toolCalls, toolResults, finishReason, usage });
  },
});


# Logging | Observability

Learn how to use logging in Mastra to monitor execution, capture application behavior, and improve the accuracy of AI applications.

Source: https://mastra.ai/docs/observability/logging

---

# Logging

Mastra's logging system captures function execution, input data, and output responses in a structured format. 

When deploying to Mastra Cloud, logs are shown on the [Logs](/docs/deployment/mastra-cloud/observability)page. In self-hosted or custom environments, logs can be directed to files or external services depending on the configured transports. 

## Configuring logs with PinoLoggerDirect link to Configuring logs with PinoLogger

When [initializing a new Mastra project](/docs/getting-started/installation)using the CLI, `PinoLogger`is included by default. 

src/mastra/index.ts 
```
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core/mastra";import { PinoLogger } from "@mastra/loggers";export const mastra = new Mastra({  // ...  logger: new PinoLogger({    name: "Mastra",    level: "info",  }),});
```

> See the PinoLogger API reference for all available configuration options.

## Customizing logsDirect link to Customizing logs

Mastra provides access to a logger instance via the `mastra.getLogger()`method, available inside both workflow steps and tools. The logger supports standard severity levels: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`. 

### Logging from workflow stepsDirect link to Logging from workflow steps

Within a workflow step, access the logger via the `mastra`parameter inside the `execute`function. This allows you to log messages relevant to the step’s execution. 

src/mastra/workflows/test-workflow.ts 
```
import { createWorkflow, createStep } from "@mastra/core/workflows";import { z } from "zod";const step1 = createStep({  //...  execute: async ({ mastra }) => {    const logger = mastra.getLogger();    logger.info("workflow info log");    return {      output: ""    };  }});export const testWorkflow = createWorkflow({...})  .then(step1)  .commit();
```

### Logging from toolsDirect link to Logging from tools

Similarly, tools have access to the logger instance via the `mastra`parameter. Use this to log tool specific activity during execution. 

src/mastra/tools/test-tool.ts 
```
import { createTool } from "@mastra/core/tools";import { z } from "zod";export const testTool = createTool({  // ...  execute: async ({ mastra }) => {    const logger = mastra?.getLogger();    logger?.info("tool info log");    return {      output: "",    };  },});
```

### Logging with additional dataDirect link to Logging with additional data

Logger methods accept an optional second argument for additional data. This can be any value, such as an object, string, or number. 

In this example, the log message includes an object with a key of `agent`and a value of the `testAgent`instance. 

src/mastra/workflows/test-workflow.ts 
```
import { createWorkflow, createStep } from "@mastra/core/workflows";import { z } from "zod";const step1 = createStep({  //...  execute: async ({ mastra }) => {    const testAgent = mastra.getAgent("testAgent");    const logger = mastra.getLogger();    logger.info("workflow info log", { agent: testAgent });    return {      output: ""    };  }});export const testWorkflow = createWorkflow({...})  .then(step1)  .commit();
```
```

===

correct mastra ai implementation is like in dev-docs/mastra-test

===

understand readme.md then develop the quackgraph-agent. you can also edit packages/quackgraph if you like. but your working dir is not there. quackgraph-agent working dir is at ./ 

---

understand readme.md then continue develop the quackgraph-agent. 

---

understand readme.md then continue develop the quackgraph-agent until all features well implemented in production ready manner.
